Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword, this is test for W and B.
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword
Your youngest and strongest will fall by the sword





----------this is the command about move----------

l right
h left
j down
k up

0 to the beginning of the current line
^ to the first non-space character on the current line
$ to the end of the current line

w to the beginning of the next word (include the punctuation)
W to the beginning of the next word 
b to the beginning of the previous word (include the punctuation)
B to the beginning of the previous word
e to the end of the next word 
E to the end of the next word

ctrl-f down one page
ctrl-b up one page

gg the start
G to the last line of the file

number + (G/w/e/b/h/j/k/l)
5G go to 5th line of the file

----------this is the command about edit----------

a append text after to the current cursor
A append text to the end of the current line

o open a blank line below the current line
O open a blank line above the current line

x delete the current character
3x delete the current character and the next 2 characters
dd delete the current line
5dd delete the current line and the next 4 lines
dw delete from the current cursor position to the beginning of the next word
d$ delete from the current cursor position to the end of the current line
d0 delete from the current cursor position to the beginning of the current line
d^ delete from the current cursor position to the first non-whitespace charater in the line
dG delete from the current line to the end line of the file
d20G delete from the current line to the 20th line of the file

yy copy the current line
5yy copy the current line and the next 4 lines
yW copy from the current cursor position to the beginning of the next word
y$
y0
y^
yG
y20G

J join the next line to current line

----------this is the command about search and replace ----------

fa find current line the next a
/ou find "ou" in the file, press n to move the cursor to the next "ou"

%s/Your/your/g using "your" to replace "Your" in global file
%s/your/Your/gc check when replace (y:yes/n:no/a:all/q:quit/l:replace this one and quit)

----------this is the command about milti-files----------

vim file1 file2 file3 ...	open many files with vim
:n			switch to next file
:buffers	see files list
:buffer 2	switch to the file whose buffer number is 2

:e file1	open extend file, but can't use :n to switch next file, can user "buffer+number" to switch

:r file1	insert file1's content to current file

:w file1	save file1

----------this is the command about visual-block----------

1. move the cursor to start position, then press ctrl-v into Visual-block mode
2. select the block you want to choose
3. press i to insert mode, insert something you want 
4. press Esc, you will find all the bolck insert something.

eg (给第3-5行每行句末添加";"):
	1. 3G			move to the 3th line
	2. ctrl-v		into Visual-block mode
	3. 5G$			move the cursor to the 5th line, $ means move the cursor to end of the line
	4. A			into Append mode
	5. ;			append ";"
	6. Esc			show the magic




